I would like to thank the authors for their itemized response to my previous report. However, there continue to be strong concerns regarding the main results, based on the overly restrictive theoretical analysis provided in this letter as well as the lack of any additional analysis provided regarding the effects of star spots. The authors provide no additional analysis in their response that would demonstrate the results in a more robust and convincing way. As it is presented now, I cannot recommend the publication of the letter because the overly restricted analysis likely affects the validity of the main results presented. Given the time spent on my two reviews, I would appreciate if the authors similarly took the time to perform the necessary quantitative analyses and supplement the letter with a clear presentation of the new results before resubmitting the manuscript.

1) In response to my second comment, the authors write "WASP-107b *is* different from previous cases because it has a cooler equilibrium temperature (780 K). At these temperatures, methane is expected to be the dominant carrier of carbon atoms (see Figure 7 of Moses et al. 2013, ApJ, 777, 34). Since methane has strong features in the WFC3 bandpass, we are able to constrain the C/O ratio robustly. This is in contrast to other higher-temperature planets, where the dominant carbon-bearing molecules are CO and CO2. These molecules have strong features in Spitzer photometric bands, but they are not spectroscopically resolved, making it more challenging to infer C/O for these planets than it is for WASP-107b."

The authors are correct in that WASP-107b is cooler (780K) than many hot exoplanets studied, but it is simply not true that this will enable "to constrain the C/O ratio robustly" with the wavelength range provided just because the planet is slightly cooler. On the contrary, it is quite likely that significant amount of carbon should be EXPECTED in other forms at the temperature encountered in WASP-107b's atmosphere, notably CO. WASP-107b is right at the transitional temperature between CO and CH4. 

2) This brings up the main shortcoming of the letter as it is right now. The results in Figure 4 are presented for chemical equilibrium under the assumption of a temperature profile parameterized by the analytical form of Guillot 2010. This is overly restrictive and the resulting posterior distributions of C/O in Figure 4 are likely strongly affected by this restriction. The authors responses do not provide ANY additional analysis beyond the ones provided in the first submission. The authors only added that the methane abundance is in disagreement with equilibrium abundance of methane "at 700 Kelvin and 10 mbar". That is a very special case in a very sensitive region near the CH4/CO transition and we do not know what the exact photospheric temperature is. How does that comparison at 800K and 0.1mbar, for example? No methane and lots of CO should be expected. What happens if there is a thermal inversions? The data also indicates that there are clouds. Under these conditions, the authors should not restrict the models to Guillot 2010 temperature structures, but allow for a much wider range of temperature structures. 

3) Next, stating that the photosphere is at 10 mbar, while implying from the current retrieval analysis that there is a cloud deck between 0.1 and 1 mbar (at 1-sgima) is inconsistent and misleading. The authors need to compare their methane abundance to the expected methane abundances for a range of plausible Tp profiles at 0.1 mbar and above. That is where the observations are sensitive to methane, not at 10 mbar. This will likely change their conclusion about the depletion or non-depletion of methane. Hence, the wording "methane depletion" is misleading.

4) My previous report stated "it appears unwise to constrain the atmospheric retrieval analysis to metallicities smaller than 30 times solar. This is true in particular because the probability distribution from the retrieval analysis rises sharply towards this upper bound. Considering all metallicities up 1000 times solar would be extremely helpful to understand whether the atmospheric models support the statement of low metallicities or not. Does the transmission spectrum in any way support the statement of low metallicity? Consistent results from interior modeling and the transmission spectrum would be reassuring and strength the letter. Also, what are the constraints on clouds and C/O when higher metallicities are considered?"
The authors provide a short response, but do not answer the questions and only refer back to the already existing text. What are the constraints at higher metallicities without a prior on metallicity?

5) With regard to the first point in my previous report, the authors confirm that the careful treatment of the star spot crossing is necessary. Here, I would like to reemphasize that WASP-107b and particularly this data set appear to be especially prone to such events and potentially also occulted star spots. In this case, it is not sufficient for the authors to state that they have done tests, but it would be crucial that the reader sees the results from these tests. Along the same line, I cannot imagine that fitting each wavelength with a full white light curve model would not change the retrieval results significantly. The uncertainties should go up substantially. Supplementary information should be provided.

6) In addition, showing that three analysis provided same results is good, but not sufficient given that they are extremely similar analysis. Can you please provide an atmospheric retrieval analysis with less restrictive models that explicitly excludes the HST orbit affected by the star spot crossing event? That would be a better test than saying that three very similar analysis result in the same spectrum.

7) The data coverage ends at 1.629µm and does not seem to cover the full WFC3 bandpass up to 1.7. Can you please provide the full spectral coverage when you showing the comparisons between your different approaches for the light curve fitting?

8) The authors should explicit state which of the data points are the ones that constrain the water and methane abundances? How sensitive are these data points to the analysis and the star spot crossing event? 

9) The claimed significance of low methane abundance is 2.7sigma. However, the data point at 1.31µm cannot be fit by any model at >3.5 sigma deviation. At the same time, all considered models pass the 8 lowest data points above the data points' face value. That does not appear to be a coincidence because it appears consistently for the points between the H2O absorption bands. That is worrisome and supports the concern that too restrictive models were used in the interpretation or that water alone is insufficient to explain the data.

10) In the first report, I raised concerns about the limb darkening models. The authors state that they assessed the effect of stellar temperature, but no further analysis was provided? Please assess other effects. Please also present the results for fitted limb darkening coefficients. I would assume that this would be an easy test to do for the authors.

11) Please also assess the effects of unocculted star spots on the results. WASP-107 appears to be a star strongly affected by star spots.
