We thank the referee for his or her detailed report. The concerns raised in the report are addressed below. 

Beginning with the transit analysis, the authors notice a strong star spot crossing event in the white transit light curve. The event occurs right in the middle of the transit and more than half of the in-transit data is affected by this star spot crossing event. The effect of the star spot crossing event is stronger than any previous HST WFC3 data set I know of. The authors simply state that this has a strong effect on the white light curve and they ignore the affected data, but they imply that the spectroscopic light curves can be 100% corrected by dividing the spectroscopic light curves by the white light curve. However, the authors present no analysis that would support that statement. The authors ignore the potential critical effect of the star spot crossing event and claim their results in the abstract and conclusion section assuming Gaussian uncertainties ignoring that half their in-transit data is affect by the star spot crossing. The star spot crossing event is likely not monochromatic. This data abnormality can likely have critical effects on the main results and conclusions described in this paper.
	
	The referee is correct that careful treatment of the star spot is needed to achieve a robust result. We performed a number of tests to address this issue:

Our nominal model uses the divide white technique, which treats the star spot crossing as an additional systematic and removes it as common-mode noise. In addition to this nominal model, we also performed two tests that treated the star spot differently and obtained consistent results for the transmission spectrum. First, we fit the light curves with an analytic model (with the same parameterization as for the white light curve fit). Second, we used the divide white technique but used a white light curve error vector that *included* the spot-crossing orbit (which we masked in our nominal analysis). In all cases, the mean-subtracted transmission spectra are nearly identical (with a median deviation of <0.5 sigma). There is a small offset in the mean transit depth for the different models (<200 ppm), which is expected because the nominal model divides out the star spot contribution whereas the two tests do not. However, this offset does not affect the conclusions of the paper because the planet 10-bar radius is a free parameter (as described in section 4.2). 

Based on these tests, we concluded that the reported transmission spectrum is not significantly affected by our assumptions abou the star spot correction, and that any chromaticity in the spot amplitude is below the level of noise in our data.  We added a few sentences to the text in section 3.2 to clarify these points.
	

Next, the authors state in the introduction that previous attempts to measure the C/O ratio relied on narrow wavelength coverage or broadband observations. This is correct and has prevented the reliable measurements of C/O ratios for many planets studied to date. However, the presented data for WASP-107b is not different. The data set presented is actually much less complete than for other exoplanets studied in the same size range. Many exoplanets have data sets much more complete: the same WFC3 observations, plus multiple HST/STIS observations, the shorter WFC3 bandpass, and/or ground-based observations in J, H, K band. Given the limited wavelength coverage and the unique challenge with the star spot crossing, the presented marginal detection of methane depletion is particularly worrisome (see below).

	WASP-107b is different from previous cases because it has a cooler equilibrium temperature. At these temperatures, methane is expected to be the dominant carrier of carbon atoms, and since methane has strong features in the WFC3 bandpass, we are able to constrain the C/O ratio robustly. This is in contrast to other higher-temperature planets, where the dominant carbon-bearing molecules are CO and CO2. These molecules have strong features in Spitzer photometric bands, but they are not spectroscopically resolved, making it more challenging to infer C/O for these planets than it is for WASP-107b.

The list of subtleties continues with the team relabeling WASP-107b as a Neptune-mass planet throughout the paper. However, the mass of WASP-107b (38 Earth masses) is more than twice the mass of Neptune (17 Earth masses) and the size of WASP-107 closely resembles the one of a gas giant like Jupiter. Anderson 2017 more appropriately labeled the planet as a planet "in the transition region between ice giants and gas giants". Given its size and mass, it would be critical to state that this planet likely should not be put into the exo-Neptune class. One could label the planet as a sub-Saturn as is widely done in the Kepler and K2 literature. Either way, it would be useful to contrast WASP-107b from exo-Neptunes and highlight its differences. It might make this letter more unique.
Given that the authors label WASP-107b a "Neptune-mass planet", it appears extremely surprising that authors do not cite recent papers on HAT-P-26b (and HAT-P-11b) that reveal water detections on exo-Neptunes without the complications introduced by data abnormalities due to star spot crossings. 

	We do cite the result for HAT-P-26b (). We added a citation to the HAT-P-11b result 


Interior models present a powerful tool for probing the bulk composition of exoplanets based on their masses and radii. However, it is critical to understand that these interior models have substantial model uncertainties for the application presented here. The authors go beyond what most previous interior modeling analysis did and try to derive robust limits on the atmospheric metallicity from the interior models alone. In that analysis, they consider the observational uncertainties on the measured mass and radius of WASP-107b, but they ignore the model uncertainties completely. The model uncertainties should be assessed in great detail before making strong statements on the atmospheric metallicity in the abstract and conclusion section.

Given the subtleties with the interior modeling, it appears unwise to constrain the atmospheric retrieval analysis to metallicities smaller than 30 times solar. This is true in particular because the probability distribution from the retrieval analysis rises sharply towards this upper bound. Considering all metallicities up 1000 times solar would be extremely helpful to understand whether the atmospheric models support the statement of low metallicities or not. Does the transmission spectrum in any way support the statement of low metallicity? Consistent results from interior modeling and the transmission spectrum would be reassuring and strength the letter. Also, what are the constraints on clouds and C/O when higher metallicities are considered? 

The marginal 2.7sigma detection of the methane depletion is particularly worrisome given the presented data analysis, the subtleties of this specific data set, and the presented modeling. The wavelength coverage is narrow, the absorption is dominated by water, and the data is potentially affected by star spot crossing. Beyond the data, the authors do not clearly state what they compare the methane abundance to. In section 4.2.1, are the authors comparing the methane abundance to values from chemical equilibrium calculations only? Why only for 3 x solar metallicity? How do uncertainties in the temperature structure affect the comparison? The authors also refer to composition models for GJ436b by Moses et al and others; however, GJ 436b's equilibrium temperature is 150 K lower. The higher temperature of WASP-107b would naturally shift the balance toward lower methane abundance compared to GJ436b. For a planet with WASP-107b's level of irradiation, It appears very plausible that the carbon is locked up in CO without the need to invoke scenarios with low C/O or high internal heat fluxes. A more detailed analysis is necessary or the wording in title, abstract, and the conclusion section should be relaxed or focused on the potentially more robust constraints on the metallicity and water abundance. 

In section 3.2, the authors opt to fix the limb darkening coefficients because it improves the precision on the transit depth. However, the authors do not seem to consider modeling uncertainties in these limb darkening coefficients or the uncertainties in the stellar properties. How do these uncertainties effect the transit depth uncertainties? How does this affect the findings?

	as stated in sections 3.1.2 and 3.2, we found that when we fit for the limb darkening coefficients as free parameters, they agree with stellar models. We also tested whether changing the stellar parameters used to calculated the models had a significant effect, and it did not.

In section 3.1.2, the final white light curve fit fixes the transit parameters to the values from the more precise and continuous Kepler light curve from Dai & Winn 2017? Including these constraints is very reasonable, but it is not explicitly stated how the uncertainties on a/rs, i, and p from Dai & Winn 2017 are incorporated.

In section 3.1.2, the authors attribute "excess noise to loss of flux off the edge of the detector, which can occur if there is variation in the position or length of the spatial scan. Please explain in detail. Why would flux be lost of the detector if the spectrum is placed near the center of the detector? It is also to ad-hoc to simply increase the error bars by a factor of 1.7 to obtain a achieve a reduced chi-square of unity. A statistically more correct way of dealing with the increased uncertainty should be employed.
