To the editor: 

Thank you for passing along the referee report for our paper on WASP-107b. We have responded to the referee's comments inline below:


***
1) The authors continue to argue in favor of a sub-solar C/O ratio (even in the abstract) while not providing any C/O constraints from an atmospheric retrieval analysis that sufficiently considers the uncertainty in the temperature of the upper atmosphere. The sensitivity to the temperature structure has been my main concern from the beginning, yet the authors have not addressed it in the paper yet.

a) For Figure 4, the authors need to either provide the C/O ratio from a free retrieval, whose results are less affected by the uncertainty in the vertical temperature structure, or from a "chemically-consistent" retrieval that appropriately captures the wide uncertainty in the possible temperatures of the upper atmosphere near the terminator. This is particularly important for THIS article because WASP-107b's equilibrium temperature puts the planet right at the edge between having CO or CH4 as the naturally favored carbon-bearing species.

It is known from previous publications that the team has the capabilities to consider a wide range of tropospheric and stratospheric temperature structures using parameterization. I would request the authors report the results either from a free retrieval or from a "chemically-consistent" retrieval that appropriately parameterizes the temperature structure.
#

We carried out the requested test of a chemically-consistent retrieval with a parameterized T/P profile. We found that this test made very little difference to the retrieved C/O values. 

For the nominal model in the submitted paper (which we refer to as Case 1), we used a temperature-pressure profile parameterized via the Guillot 2010 relations. We fixed the T/P profile morphology but scaled the irradiation temperature to allow for the unknown albedo and heat transport efficiency. For the case requested by the referee (Case 2), we added additional free parameters (FIXME: Mike, can you describe these in a little more detail?).  For the two cases, the median and 68% confidence intervals for log10(C/O) were: 

Scaled T/P (Case 1)             -1.54^{+0.54}_{-0.32}
Parameterized (Case 2)          -1.49^{+0.51}_{-0.35}

Solar C/O is disfavored at 2.74 sigma for case 1, and 2.88 sigma for Case 2. The parameterized T/P profile provides a slightly stronger constraint because it favors lower temperatures at higher pressures. To illustrate these points, we include a figure as part of response showing the retrieved C/O values and T/P profiles for each case (Case 1 is blue, Case 2 is red). The left panel show the histogram of C/O values, and the right panel shows the median T/P profiles with one sigma confidence intervals. 

We are not surprised by this result because the shape of the spectrum is most strongly influenced by the effective scale height temperature at the pressure level we are probing (~1e-4 bar). Since both T/P profile choices are flexible enough to match this temperature (they agree almost exactly at the 1e-4 bar level), the constraints on composition are not strongly affected by which parameterization we choose.  

Given that this different parameterization did not significantly change our results, we simply state these results in the text but do not change the figures or the abstract. 

#

***

b) Along the same line, you now say: "[The methane abundance] is in tension with expectations for a solar abundance pattern: for 3.7× solar metallicity, 650 K, and 5 × 10−4 bar 
(the median retrieved photosphere properties)".

You say that those are "median retrieved photosphere properties", but does your retrieval even allow higher temperature like 700, 750, 800, 850K at 5 x 10-4 bar? I don't think so. And that is exactly the problem with your retrieval analysis as well as Section 4.2.1. How does your methane abundance compare to solar C/O if the temperature was slightly higher in the upper atmosphere or some quenching occurred? 

It remains critical to replace the main retrieval analysis (Figure 4) with one of the two listed above. Then quote those results in the abstract. Then please also consider that temperature uncertainty in your discussion of the methane abundance in Section 4.2.1.

#

Our nominal retrieval (case 1, scaled T/P) does allow temperatures ranging from 700 - 850 K at 5e-4 bar (see the attached figure entitled "comparison.pdf"). The 1 sigma temperature range at this pressure level is very comparable for the scaled T/P profile (Case 1), and the parameterized T/P profile (Case 2).

We agree that it is important to account for this uncertainty in temperature when assessing whether there is evidence for methane depletion. We tested exactly this in section 4.2.1, when we removed methane opacity from the retrieval. We found that when methane opacity is removed, we obtain a much wider posterior distribution of C/O values (0.02 - 1.6 at 1 sigma confidence).  This suggests that an absence of methane is what is driving the low C/O values. Since this result is from a retrieval that marginalizes over the uncertainty in the temperature, it addresses the referee's concern that our results are dependent on the exact choice of temperature/pressure. 

In this section, we also discussed the methane constraint from the free retrieval as an additional suggestion that methane may be depleted relative to the chemical equilibrium abundance at the expected photosphere, but our main result is from the retrieval that accounts for the uncertainty in temperature. 


2) The authors continue to not show any models with solar C/O even though they are trying to convince the reader that they can exclude solar C/O scenarios. That is not satisfactory. At the very least, please show the following 3 models in Figure 2:

a) Please show the absolute best fitting model from the retrieval analysis discussed in Point 1 (Tp profile parameterized).
b) Please show the best fitting model with solar C/O from the retrieval analysis discussed in Point 1 (Tp profile parameterized). The reader needs to see the difference.
c) If desired, please also show the best fitting model with solar C/O and a fiducial temperature profile and best-fitting clouds. It would be great to actually see the methane absorption.

Having these three models is the most important for Figure 2 and this paper.

#

We added the best fit solar C/O model to Figure 2. The differences between (a) and (b) are subtle, with the solar C/O model giving a slightly smaller feature at 1.15 micron and slightly larger amplitude in the troughs at 1.25 and 1.58 microns. While these features are subtle, the retrieval still favors the sub-solar C/O model at the 2.7 sigma level, regardless of the many different parameterizations we have tried (including cloud patchiness, quenching, the addition of a power-law haze opacity, removing the prior on atmospheric metallicity, and finally, the change in T/P profile suggested by the referee in this report).


3) Quenching is also not included in the main retrieval (Figure 4), even though it can play a major role for WASP-107b. If you choose to go with a free retrieval for Figure 4, then this is automatically captured. However, if you choose to go with the chemically-consistent model to address Point 1, please include a quench point as discussed in Morley et al. 2017 in addition to the parameterized Tp profile.

We carried out a retrieval analysis with the chemically-consistent model (with a parameterized T/P profile) that included a quench point at (FIXME: what pressure?). We label this case "Case 3". We found that our estimate of the C/O ratio changed by less than 0.1 sigma from Case 1.  Specifically, we found that for Case 3, the C/O ratio is subsolar at 2.84 sigma confidence. The median and one sigma range for log10(C/O) is -1.51^{+0.50}_{-0.31} 

This result confirms our finding for the scaled T/P profile that quenching is not the cause of the retrieved low C/O values. We added the results of this test to section 4.2.
 

